now let us take a example of design listed in Fig 4.1 with Gadget list = {HPC1, HPC2, HPC3}, there are 10 And notes with 4 levels,
we explored this design with our MLRC algorithm with 2nd order security from target randomness ranges from (30-60) and the result is listed in table 4.2 
Each row in table 4.2 represent an assignment of gadgets of 2nd order security 
to the AND nodes in the design such that target randomness is met with optimal latency. As minimum randomness required 
for an single AND node is min(5,3,6)  which is 3 (refer table 4.1) of HPC2. So for 10 AND node to assign gadget we need 
atleast 3*10 = 30 random bits. So we start with 30 target  randomness which give us latency of 8 and all nodes (g0..g9) assigned with 
HPC2,similarly for target randomness 44 (row 10 Fig 4.2) The asiignment is :
g0=HPC2, g1=HPC2, g2=HPC2, g3=HPC2, g4=HPC2, g5=HPC1, g6=HPC3, g7=HPC3, g8=HPC3, g9=HPC3 producing total latency of 6.
it can be clearly seen that with increase of randomness latency decreasec and vise versa, This was only for single security order 2 
but if we consider security order also as variable then there is significant trad-off between latency-randomness and security, 
with relation as followes: randomness directly prapostional to security order, randomness inversionaly prapostional to latency (vice versa)
it can be noted that latency is constant throughout the security orderes of a perticular gadget.
as there are exponential gadget placements to a single design whit this trad-offs it gives us enuff motivation for Automated and proper 
Design space exploration.


Previous work:
Nilotpola sarma an Phd Scholar and Nupur Brahamanya M.tech student had priviously worked in this domain and had done remarkable
work. They have explored the Design space of the masked hardware and formulated two algorithms latency aware and an randomness aware
to explore the Design space of a cryptografic designs. there algorithm were eficient and fast to explore the complete design and assign
the best secure gadget to AND nodes. But there algorithm were limited to only 1st order security and were not exploring Design for higher 
orders. So in this work with the help of Nilotpola sarma we had created an more rubust and flexible frame work which can explore any
cryptographic design at any level of security according to the users constraints, Hence this work focuse on Exploring an Design in 3 dimentions
latency, randomness and security order with also an area aware optimization whenever it can be possible.




Design Space Exploration:
The DSE of the design is then performed by these five algorithms : MLRC, MRLC, MLRSC, MRLSC, MSRLC according to the users define constraints.
This algorithms give user a choice to specify the target_randomness or target_latency and security order which whould be strictly met.
For example a user with strict budget on randomness and wants maximum security order masked design with minimized latency then he might use MLRSC and vese versa,
or a user with both latency bound and randomness bound want most secured maseked hardware design then he can use MSRLC.
once any of these algorithm is executed based on users requirnment, the optimal gadget assignment of Gadgets to AND-tree is obtained through 
gadget assignment table. Now according to the gadget assignment we split the inputs and C code into shares based on the desired security order.
Then the AND Exprassions in C code is replaced with the assigned gadgets function call. For example x = Y&Z becomes like hpc2(y0,y1,y2,z0,z1,z2,x0,x1,x2)


High-level Synthesis of the gadget-based masked C-code
After we get Optimized gadget based masked C-Code in above step, Now we focuse on obtaining Power side channel Attack (PSCA) secure
hardware design . This is obtain through HLS of the gadget based masked C-code.  in this work we adopted the masking specific tool Masked HLS
that ensures PSCA security is not impacted during HLS. MaskedHLS generates the masked RTL with reduced register count. 
Given a software-level gadget based masked implementation of a cryptographic algorithm, the HLS tool needs to add registers in specific places as specified in the gadget in order to stop the propagation of glitches. To preserve the functionality of the design, after the insertion of registers in specific paths, the parallel paths would also
require register insertion. For register insertion in multiple locations, the number of
balancing registers and the design latency must be minimized
as well. The MaskedHLS tool does exactly that while ensuring the
PSCA-security of its output. We provide the gadget based masked C code generated by our DSE algorithm to MaskedHLS. MaskedHLS
ensures the latency determined by DSE framework since it identifies the minimum possible
pipeline stages in the circuit satisfying all necessary register
requirements by the gadgets. MaskedHLS  performs the register balancing in next step. It identifies all
locations in parallel paths where registers need to be added. Finally, it generates the register transfer level (RTL) of the masked hardware in Verilog. The output RTL
results in the desired randomness-latency optimal gadget-based masked hardware at the desired security-order.


when converting a gadget based masked impolementation to hardware, there can be glitch prapogation in the design for example in fig 2 desing let us consider that 
level 1 AND gates g0,g1,g2 are assigned as g0=HPC2, g1=HPC2, g2=HPC3 (of 2nd order) then g0 and g1 will have latency of 1 while g2 will
have latency of 2 then g0 and g1 will produce glitch as there output will be available before g2, hence register must be inserred at specific points
is required to prevent glitch prapogation. Inserting registers along one path typically forces the insertion of matching registers along its parallel paths to preserve 
functionality, so the HLS tool must choose register locations carefully. The challenge is therefore twofold: meet every gadget’s 
register-placement requirements to ensure security, and keep both the number of balancing registers and the overall latency as low 
as possible.



MLRC
In this work, we consider four  gadgets: HPC1, HPC2, HPC3 and COMAR. The latency, randomness and area of these gadgets are tabulated in table 4.1.  
However, the COMAR randomness can be shared among all COMAR gadgets in the design but it is only feasible for 1st order security.
But, the randomness used in HPC!, HPC2 and HPC3 must be unique and cannot be shared with other gadgets. During the 
construction of AND tree, we also do the topological sort to find the level of each node. The level is the distance of the node from 
the source. We also keep track of nodes that are in same level. And we also construct min heap for the number of nodes in each level.


In MLRC the objective is to mimimize the latency without violating the randomness budget and security order provided by the user.
for order 1 if target randomness is less then number of nodes then only we use comar gadget as it shares randomness acrros the design,
but from 2nd order we only use HPC1, HPC2, HPC3 gadgets. As COMAR is not feasible from 2nd order to use.
So for a given design we first create AND tree then build the min heap and count the number of node.Then we extract all gadgets info from
gadget library for a given order. Then if the target_randomness is less then number of node * HPC2's randomness(for given order) then we say target randomness can not
be achieved and return no design but if number of nodes * HPC2's randomness is less or equal to given target_randomness then we mark all the AND node with 
HPC2 and mailtain the randomness_bonus variable which keeps count of remaining randomness. Now to reduce latency we use the min heap,
we pop top of the min heap wich gives us the level with minimum nun=mber of node lets say it give level l whih k node , now if 
HPC3,s randomness(for given d) * k is less then randomness_bonus then we can replace all the k AND node at this level with HPC3. This will reduce 
latency by 1 and also the area. if HPC3,s randomness(for given d) * k is greater then randomness_bonus then we try for replacing this levels nodes 
whic HPC1 , to reduce the area. This process will continue for remaining
levels in ascending order with respect to the number of nodes until we have buffer
randomness. This is our MLRC area aware logic.


The MLRC algorithms are given Algorithms 3, 1 and 2. In Algorithm 3, use ru version
is used to make the MLRC randomness utilization aware or area aware. use ru version
= 1 indicates MLRC is randomness utilization aware. use ru version = 0 indicates
MLRC is area aware. Lines 3:7 of Algorithm 3 decides default COMAR or HPC2
gadgets based on target randomness. Algorithm 3 then invokes Algorithm 1 for level
25
wise processing of the nodes as discussed above. Algorithm 2 is used for gadget re-
placement


Now let us consider the example in Figure \ref{fig:mlrccomar}. Now assume the gives target randomness of 58 and security order of 2, so first we replace all 14 nodes with HPC2 as it has minimum randomness.
This will result in total latency of 6 and total randomness of 3 * 14 = 45. the randomness_bonus will be 58-45 = 13. Now we first choose level 2 (i.e nodes g7, g8, g9) which has 3 nodes and replace them with HPC3 
as HPC3 has randomness 6 so to replace these three node relative randomness required is 6 * 3 - 3* 3 = 18- 9 = 9 and this should be greater then randomness bonus which is in this case. So now after this 
replacement overall randomness of design will be 42+9=51 and randomness_bonus will be 4 and latency will be reduced by 1, now we will select level 3 which has 5 nodes, so relative randomness required is 5 * 6 - 5 * 3 = 30 - 15 = 15 
which is greater then randomness_bounus so now we cant reduce the latency so now we will try to reduce the area. So now we can replce 2 nodes of level 3 with HPC1 as it has same latency as HPC2 but less area
so relative randomness required = 2*5 - 2*3 = 10 - 6 = 4 , which we have, so replace node g10 and g11 with HPC1.
So after the completin of algorithm the total latency of design will be 5 randomness will be 58 and area will be 16926.358 GE



The MLRC algorithms are Algorithm 1,2. In Algorithm 1, target randomness, security order(d) is taken as input from user. Line 2:9 desides default COMAR or HPC@ gadget besed on target_randomness and security_order.
Then it calls Algorithm 2 for level wise processing and replacing gadgets with optimised ones to get best design.



The MRLC algorithm is given in Algorithm \ref{A:MRLC}. This Algorith is quit similar to MLRC and uses MLRC as a top module. This algo finds
maximum secured design with lower bound security order d provided by user under randomness constraints. So provided target randomness and 
a security order this algo explores best secured design (d>provided order) which is strictly under provided randomness.




 All the Algorithms were executed on 12-core intel i7-8700 CPU operating at 3.20 GHz. we evaluated this Algorithms on 3 cryptographic 
 benchmarks: (1) Present Sbox, (2) AES-256 Boyer_peraltas_sbox (3) Skinny Sbox . The unmasked version of this designs has 2,4,2 levels 
 of nodes in AND tree constructed for DSE. The result has been presented as followes: First we show how all 5 algorithm explored the design 
 in the terms of latency-randomness and security order trade off and efficiency of DSE framework in genrating optimal masked verilog of 
 given design. The results of each design has been tabulated in table 6.1.
 Then we validated the outpit of the DSE framework via TVLA test for Power side channel Attack security.




Table 6.2 Presents the synthesis results for optimised design of Present, AES, and Skinny sbox for all five Algorithms for diffrent user 
inputs, the parameteres of the table are: #unmasked c means number of lines of unmasked c code, #masked c mean number lines of masked c code genrated by 
DSE, # verilog means number of lines of masked verilog code, # regs means number of registers used in hardware, Latency, Area in gate equivalente(GC)
randomness (number of bits), and runtime(in seconds) of DSE genrating verilog code from masked c code.
MLRC-93(R), 2(d) means MLRC with target_randomness 93 and security order 2, Similarly MLRSC-138(R), 2(d),
MRLC-3(L), 2(d) means MRLC with target_latency 3 and security_order 2, Similarly MRLSC-3(L), 2(d).
MSRLC-200(R), 3(L) means MSRLC with target_randomness 200 and target_latency 3.


Results clearly highlightes the latency,randomness and security order tradoff also the secondary factor area. 
Boyer_Peraltas AES sbox when run on MLRC with 800 target randomness and 5th order it gives design with latency 5 and area 118K (GE), but whensame design 
is runed for 700 ramdomness and 6 latency constraints by MSRLC it give optimal design of latency 6 and area 110K (GE),
Also same design (AES) when explored by MLRSC with 250 randomness and 2nd order security the best best design we get has randomness 249 latency 6
security order 3 and area 69K (GE). The run time for the higher order exploration is bit greater then the lower order, Skinny has very less run time 
for all orders , This can be attributed to the fact that the SKINNY Sbox is really small (in number of AND operations) compared to the 
other Sboxes. The run time is mentioned is calculated including run time of maskedHLS means the run time is of complete flow form unmasked C code to getting masked verilog code.




Our aprroach presented in this work tries to optimise randomness over the latency and security order and vece versa according to the user need 
in gadget based masked design. The point on design space thus implies latency,randomnessand security order of a design. Thus for n AND node
to one of the k gadget, each gadget varing min security order to max security order there can be $\sum_{d=1}^{d_{max}} (k_d)^n$ possible gadget assignment into
the design space for each target_latency,target_randomnessand security order. individually these design points are the one being explored 
by the MLRC, MLRSC, MRLC, MRLSC, MSRLC algorithms with a specified targets.
in this work we have analysed the DSE flow of Boyer_peraltas_sbox AES which has 34 ANS node means for 3 gadgets HPC1,HPC2 and HPC3 for 
2nd order security  we 3^34 = 16,677,181,699,666,569 , thus completly exploring this exponantial design point is not feassible, hence
we have genrated 1,000,000,000 randomn designs points by randomly putting gadgets to these 34 nodes to plot the DSE space and then explored 
the best design point with our Algorithms on same design. Our Algorithms outperformed all the 1,000,000,000 random design points.
Thus For large
designs, identifying the optimal design manually is difficult for our benchmark
designs AES and Present, having 34 and 23 AND nodes, respectively, which will have
a design spaces of size d * 3^34 and d * 3^23 respectively.These are astronomically large numbers
exhaustive search or visual identification is virtually impossible. In the subsequent,
we only discuss the optimal instances identified by our DSE flow for AES for various randomness, latency and security targets.

consider the 3D plot in fig 6.3. Each points on the plot are optimal design obtained via MLRC, MLRSC, MRLC, MRLSC and MSRLC
on Boyer_peraltas_sbox AES with 34 AND operations. The x axis represents the latency , y axix represent randomness and z axis represent
security order, and the colour gradiand of each point shows the changes in area.



In this work, our DSE framework was demonstrated using TETRIS mainly for first-order power side-channel secure designs. However, the same flow can be extended to higher-order masking without affecting security or the quality of the results, since the gadgets we use (HPC2, HPC3, and COMAR) all follow the same composable security model called Probe-Isolating Non-Interference (PINI). This allows them to be combined safely in larger circuits.

A natural extension of this work is to consider mixing gadgets that follow different security notions, such as NI, SNI, and PINI. Designing composition rules that work across these models would make the exploration richer and more flexible.

Another interesting direction is to explore a deeper connection between our gadget-assignment process and the Tetris game idea. Since our algorithms assign one gadget at a time while respecting certain constraints, improving this analogy may help create faster or smarter heuristics for DSE.

Finally, because the algorithms developed here are quite general, future work can try to add new heuristics or optimization strategies to further refine the design exploration for large masked circuits



In this work we have demonstrated Our DSE for nth order power side channel secure hardware using only COMAR, HPC1, HPC2, and HPC3. The DSE can also 
be applied for other gadgets. Also, since all the gadgets used (COMAR, HPC1, HPC2,
HPC3) are confirming to one composable security notion Probe-Isolating Non-
Interference(PINI), we are able to compose them securely. With inclusion of composition
laws across various security notions like (Non-Interference(NI), Strong Non-Interference(SNI),
Probe-Isolating Non-Interference(PINI)) this problem becomes more interesting which can
be explored as a future work.he assignment of gadgets one after the other with a bound
subject to a cost function is very similar to the Tetris game and exploring this connection
may lead to even better performance for DSE. Due to the generic nature
of the algorithms presented future works may be able to incorporate heuristics for more
fine-tuned DSE of gadget-based masked hardware.




In this work, we demonstrated our DSE framework for n-th order power side-channel secure hardware using the gadgets COMAR, HPC1, HPC2, 
and HPC3. The same exploration flow can also be extended to other masking gadgets. Since all the gadgets we used follow the same 
composable security model Probe-Isolating Non-Interference (PINI) they can be combined without breaking security.

A natural extension of this work is to incorporate composition rules from other security notions such as Non-Interference (NI) and 
Strong Non-Interference (SNI), along with PINI. Allowing gadgets from different models would make the design-space exploration more 
flexible and open up new challenges.

Another interesting direction is the connection between our step-by-step gadget assignment and the Tetris-like strategy used in our 
algorithms. Studying this link further may help improve the efficiency or intelligence of the exploration process.

Finally, because the algorithms developed here are general in nature, future work can introduce additional heuristics or optimizations 
to further refine the DSE for larger or more complex masked hardware designs.

As cryptographicalgorithms have diffrent rounds of calculation so can we reuse the randomn bit used by one roung in another, if if it could be possible then 
we can further more reduse the randomness overhead.  
can the registers used by in cryptographic algorith be used by Gadgets so that latency and area can be reduced. 
There are many design specific optimizations to reduce randomness bit, registers etc can we make it genric.